README.md, before:

# Covey.Town

[Live Frontend deployment](https://competent-knuth-a385f3.netlify.app/)
[Live Backend Deployment](https://cs4530coveytown.herokuapp.com/)

Covey.Town provides a virtual meeting space where different groups of people can have simultaneous video calls, allowing participants to drift between different conversations, just like in real life.
Covey.Town was built for Northeastern's [Spring 2021 software engineering course](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/), and is designed to be reused across semesters.
You can view our reference deployment of the app at [app.covey.town](https://app.covey.town/) - this is the version that students built on, and our [project showcase](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/project-showcase) highlights select projects from Spring 2021.

![Covey.Town Architecture](docs/covey-town-architecture.png)

The figure above depicts the high-level architecture of Covey.Town.
The frontend client (in the `frontend` directory of this repository) uses the [PhaserJS Game Library](https://phaser.io) to create a 2D game interface, using tilemaps and sprites.
The frontend implements video chat using the [Twilio Programmable Video](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video) API, and that aspect of the interface relies heavily on [Twilio's React Starter App](https://github.com/twilio/twilio-video-app-react). Twilio's React Starter App is packaged and reused under the Apache License, 2.0.

A backend service (in the `services/townService` directory) implements the application logic: tracking which "towns" are available to be joined, and the state of each of those towns.

## Running this app locally

Running the application locally entails running both the backend service and a frontend.

### Setting up the backend

To run the backend, you will need a Twilio account. Twilio provides new accounts with $15 of credit, which is more than enough to get started.
To create an account and configure your local environment:

1. Go to [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com/) and create an account. You do not need to provide a credit card to create a trial account.
2. Create an API key and secret (select "API Keys" on the left under "Settings")
3. Create a `.env` file in the `services/townService` directory, setting the values as follows:

| Config Value            | Description                               |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`    | Visible on your twilio account dashboard. |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SID`    | The SID of the new API key you created.   |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SECRET` | The secret for the API key you created.   |
| `TWILIO_API_AUTH_TOKEN` | Visible on your twilio account dashboard. |

### Starting the backend

Once your backend is configured, you can start it by running `npm start` in the `services/townService` directory (the first time you run it, you will also need to run `npm install`).
The backend will automatically restart if you change any of the files in the `services/townService/src` directory.

### Configuring the frontend

Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory, with the line: `REACT_APP_TOWNS_SERVICE_URL=http://localhost:8081` (if you deploy the towns service to another location, put that location here instead)

### Running the frontend

In the `frontend` directory, run `npm start` (again, you'll need to run `npm install` the very first time). After several moments (or minutes, depending on the speed of your machine), a browser will open with the frontend running locally.
The frontend will automatically re-compile and reload in your browser if you change any files in the `frontend/src` directory.

Commit message:

Updated README for new deployment instructions with GIPHY

README.md, after:

# Covey.Town

[Live Frontend deployment](https://competent-knuth-a385f3.netlify.app/)
[Live Backend Deployment](https://cs4530coveytown.herokuapp.com/)

Covey.Town provides a virtual meeting space where different groups of people can have simultaneous video calls, allowing participants to drift between different conversations, just like in real life.
Covey.Town was built for Northeastern's [Spring 2021 software engineering course](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/), and is designed to be reused across semesters.
You can view our reference deployment of the app at [app.covey.town](https://app.covey.town/) - this is the version that students built on, and our [project showcase](https://neu-se.github.io/CS4530-CS5500-Spring-2021/project-showcase) highlights select projects from Spring 2021.

![Covey.Town Architecture](docs/covey-town-architecture.png)

The figure above depicts the high-level architecture of Covey.Town.
The frontend client (in the `frontend` directory of this repository) uses the [PhaserJS Game Library](https://phaser.io) to create a 2D game interface, using tilemaps and sprites.
The frontend implements video chat using the [Twilio Programmable Video](https://www.twilio.com/docs/video) API, and that aspect of the interface relies heavily on [Twilio's React Starter App](https://github.com/twilio/twilio-video-app-react). Twilio's React Starter App is packaged and reused under the Apache License, 2.0.

A backend service (in the `services/townService` directory) implements the application logic: tracking which "towns" are available to be joined, and the state of each of those towns.

## Running this app locally

Running the application locally entails running both the backend service and a frontend.

### Setting up the backend

To run the backend, you will need a Twilio account. Twilio provides new accounts with $15 of credit, which is more than enough to get started.
To create an account and configure your local environment:

1. Go to [Twilio](https://www.twilio.com/) and create an account. You do not need to provide a credit card to create a trial account.
2. Create an API key and secret (select "API Keys" on the left under "Settings")
3. Create a `.env` file in the `services/townService` directory, setting the values as follows:

| Config Value            | Description                               |
| ----------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| `TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID`    | Visible on your twilio account dashboard. |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SID`    | The SID of the new API key you created.   |
| `TWILIO_API_KEY_SECRET` | The secret for the API key you created.   |
| `TWILIO_API_AUTH_TOKEN` | Visible on your twilio account dashboard. |

### Starting the backend

Once your backend is configured, you can start it by running `npm start` in the `services/townService` directory (the first time you run it, you will also need to run `npm install`).
The backend will automatically restart if you change any of the files in the `services/townService/src` directory.

### Configuring the frontend

Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory.

To run the front-end, you will need a GIPHY account. The GIPHY API is free to use, but an API key is required to enable GIPHY functionality.
To create an account and configure your local environment:

1. Go to [GIPHY Developer](https://developers.giphy.com/) and create an account.
2. Create an API key and secret (select "API Keys" on the left under "Settings")
3. Create a `.env` file in the `frontend` directory, setting the values as follows:

| Config Value                  | Description                                                         |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `REACT_APP_GIPHY_API_KEY`     | The GIPHY API key.                                                  |
| `REACT_APP_TOWNS_SERVICE_URL` | The URL of town service (should be `http://localhost:8081` locally) |

### Running the frontend

In the `frontend` directory, run `npm start` (again, you'll need to run `npm install` the very first time). After several moments (or minutes, depending on the speed of your machine), a browser will open with the frontend running locally.
The frontend will automatically re-compile and reload in your browser if you change any files in the `frontend/src` directory.
